
Describe the requirements for selecting, developing and implementing disaster and continuity plans.  Identify and explain physical security risks, threats and countermeasures.


Selecting a plan for disaster and continuity.  Information security and risk management.  For personal computer and servers utilizing an Internet technology with intranet technology system.  Must include the ten domains that make up the information security Common Body of Knowledge as its frame work.  Administrative professional service provided by the company in charge or third-party personal administrative professional utilizing the Common Body of knowledge as the guideline outline to follow. (Web Article: https://www.jobhero.com/job-description/examples/administrative/professional)

       Using a franchise of company locations would be the best for avoiding a disaster and continuity issues.  Multiple locations of the same services, a replica of the other shop.  Provides working machines and services.  That can answer other calls and services requests as needed.  Reduces down time when disaster strikes.  
   Making use of public cloud, private cloud and hybrid-cloud services.  That can include IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS.  Making sure the cloud provider has hosting servers that are private.   Choosing a cloud service provider that has the kinds of options to accommodate the kind of services needed.  Such as file storage, ftp servers, web servers, Network Transport Protocol servers, E-mail servers and Database servers.
    Planning should include versioning.  Versioning using git or Github.com.  Keeping notes on the course of time line over time of evolving disaster recovery.   Keeping track of installations, new issues, part lists, to-do lists, and more.   Company can work from the history of the versioning and revise its planned usage.
    Planning must review standards such as ISO: 127001, NIST and PMBOK.  Information security standards.  Project management standards.  Provides guideline to solving past discovered problems and how to resolve.  

Information classification has to be the most important topic.  When it comes to information security.  Organization such as NIST.   Would say that your company or organization is going to get hack if you like it or not.  So, placing information into classifications.  Like a database.  Could help reviewers to secure its information in ways others can’t access it.  
   The above leads me to planning on the first security domain called Information Security Governance and Risk Management.   Security management responsibilities are going to include security guard.  Some chain link fencing and security CCTV system.  Sets of Man-trap entry doors.  Personnel entry management administration and identification system.  
    Governance would include financial institutions information like credit card data and personal information.  Understanding of what needs to be quality to meet the government regulations.  Planning for enterprise architectural development.   The kinds of policies and procedures thought to be security governance and risk management technology.  
     Parties involved in contract work on site.   Will need to follow security embedded items.  According to contract wording and deliverables preformed.  Must plan for security education and awareness training.
    Project management and versioning with git or GitHub.  Should help solve documenting for development.   AS this is a life cycle in time.  Development will need to be part of the work of the secretary and the project manager.  But can also include active stake holder and cyber security manager / Network manager.  
    Continuity will need to have backups in places.  Encryption and secure login such as SSH and Public Key authentication will be a requirement to using data.  Including tools like Putty emulator.  Even Secure File Transfer Protocol will need to be used within the plan.  DNS servers must be in place first thing first.  To include backup servers and cloud file storage service.  Basically, a Server/client system.  
    DNS servers are going to need to utilize domains.  To separate other servers, such as Email servers and file servers.  Extra backup login names and password accounts will be needed.  A job of the Network Administrator.  
   Biggest security risks will be insiders and unauthorized persons visiting the location site.  The need for security guard on duty.  Security CCTV system are important.  When making use of physical security like chain link fencing and entry door man traps.  Two sets of chain link fences as a perimeter around the building site.  Using key card access points or biomatrix authentication devices.  
     Threats include usb ports that are working on all pcs and servers.  Installation of audio drivers are a threat.  Computers not part of the client/server system.  Not having a body scanner at entry points.  Problem is persons bring in hard drives and usb sticks.   Tools to damage machines or backpacks.   Excuses!
     Countermeasures include CCTV system and the use of cryptography.  Security guards.  Access by appointment only.  Franchise locations elsewhere.  Authorization and Authentication systems.  Backup power systems.
    
    


     

